Fellow users.
So this is not something I was planning on doing but since it came up in the last lecture that I did
not assign the host name or domain name to my server.
So I'm going to show you declasse do it all.
It's far advanced right now for you guys because we're just starting off.
So don't worry about remembering any of this.
I just want you to sort of remember the process that you go through in order to change the host.
So currently I've changed it to my server and I'm going to change it to Santos dash unless and s.c.s
sorry to think about it for a second.
LS see us.
So let's do that.
So first I'm going to become the super user as you are.
SU is actually for switch user that I you for the password.
I'm going to put the superuser password and now you see a hash sign or pound sign.
And that means I am root
take root on top.
Who writes his root so not have the power to change stuff.
So first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use the editor vi editor and I'm going to go into this
file see sis can sit slash network and I help change the host name to this my server but I don't want
this I want to change
so in order to change anything you have to type it to get into insert mode.
So l f c s dash sorry Centaurus gosh.
Dot Teske got code.
This is my fully qualified domain.
That's what's called S D N
and W Q then is what you type in to get out of the vi editor after saving it.
If you just do a shoe bag that's going to let you quit without hitting anything.
So if you made any changes that you don't want to say you think you messed up.
Easy way to get out of it is cubing together.
OK the next time.
Let's follow that I'm going to go into his VI and see just fine.
As you can see I have
I have the IP address which is not really a working IP address right now I just put it in there just
to show you this is the format and I want to change it here as well.
So I'm going to delete it.
You deleted that this small.
If I just keep typing X is going to keep deleting the characters and then when I type it try to insert
and then change it to send thoss out.
See as Doc test got cut and then space hostname Actually I had two tabs in there in order to have a
host name that far I want to I can bring you closer.
Doesn't really matter white space is white space is white space and Lileks could be one space or five
spaces.
So that tells the system that this is the host name and get a skate key and that WQ thing and I say
that not.
But in order for it to take a fact are two things you can do you get either reboot the machine and then
the system will recognize during the reboot that there's been a change that the host made or you can
do it while the systems run so another.
So the way to do that is eat c it.
D network restart
and you've got to know that it's been restarted.
And so far as you can see it's showing my server as the name of the server but you change it already
some exit out of it and there's one more step to this and which is hostname.
And then my host name is Santo's
Bell s.c.s
test code.
If I do a hostname at this point see not showing the new hostname but if you look at my problem this
still says my server.
So in order to change that I have to run this command and don't worry about these two men.
I don't want you to be overwhelmed about this because you're going to go over each of these later on
it out and log back in after exiting out completely and now you can see that I'm showing the new hostname
and if I type the hostname command at this point this is the hostname with the domain name as well.
Test dot com.
OK.
So sorry this was a segue kind of not intended initially but I just thought it would be a good idea
for us to do it because I didn't do it initially and once we actually get to this topic then it would
make more sense to.